Send Update 6 release doc updates to master (#6975)
ballerina-platform/ballerina-dev-website: downloads/swan-lake-release-notes/swan-lake-2201.6.0/RELEASE_NOTE.md

#### Language Server

- Added inlay hint support for function call expressions and method call expressions to provide information about parameters.

### Improvements

#### Persist Tool

- Added support for additional DB configurations in the generated client objects for the `mysql` data store.
- Changed the Ballerina `byte[]` type mapping to `LONGBLOB` in the generated SQL script file.

#### Language Server

- Removed service template initialization from the lightweight mode.
- Improved the completion support and signature help for client resource access actions.
- Improved the main function completion item.
- Improved completions in the named argument context.
- Added support to rename parameter documentation for record fields and required parameters.

#### Ballerina Update Tool

- Improved the `bal dist update` command to update the active distribution to the latest patch version (of the active Swan Lake version). 
- Improved the `bal dist pull latest` command to update the active distribution to the latest Swan Lake version.

#### OpenAPI Tool

> - Added support for OpenAPI regular expression templates (the pattern property) defined on the `string` type in Ballerina client and service generation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Added support for regular expression templates (i.e. `pattern` property) defined on OpenAPI `string` types in Ballerina client and service generation.
```

## Standard library updates

### New features

#### `constraint` package

- Introduced the `@constriant:Date` annotation to validate date record structures.
- Allowed constraint annotations on subtypes.

#### `http` package

- Added constraint validation support for `query`, `path`, and `header` parameters.
- Exposed the `http:Request` object in the response interceptors as a remote method parameter.
- Added finite type support for `query`, `path`, and `header` parameters.

#### `graphql` package

- Added support for GraphQL field interceptors.
- Added support for GraphQL interceptor configurations.
- Added support to access subfields of a GraphQL field from the `graphql:Field` object.

#### `persist` package

- Added support for the `in-memory` data store.
- Added support for the `google-sheets` data store. This is currently an experimental feature and its behavior may be subject to change in future releases.
- Added support for defining enums and adding `enum` fields to the data model.

> 

Reviewer 2: #### `edi` package
- Introduced the `edi` module to convert EDI to JSON and JSON to EDI based on a given schema.

Author: Updated.

  | `parseExpressionStringValue(String, BLink)`      | `io.ballerina.runtime.api.utils.StringUtils`       |
  | `getValueKind()`                                 | `io.ballerina.runtime.api.values.BDecimal`         |
  | `getStrand()`                                    | `io.ballerina.runtime.api.values.BFuture`          |
  | `call(Strand, String, Object...)`                | `io.ballerina.runtime.api.values.BObject`          |
  | `start(Strand, String, Object...)`               | `io.ballerina.runtime.api.values.BObject`          |
  | `getRegExpDisjunction()`                         | `io.ballerina.runtime.api.values.BRegexpValue`     |
  | `instantiate(Strand)`                            | `io.ballerina.runtime.api.values.BTypedesc`        |
  | `instantiate(Strand, BInitialValueEntry[])`      | `io.ballerina.runtime.api.values.BTypedesc`        |

### Bug fixes

To view bug fixes, see the [GitHub milestone for 2201.6.0 (Swan Lake)](https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-lang/issues?q=is%3Aissue+milestone%3A2201.6.0+label%3ATeam%2FjBallerina+label%3AType%2FBug+is%3Aclosed).

> ## Standard library updates

Reviewer 3: We need to add a deprecation notice for the `serdes` package. How should we add it?

Author: We can add either as an improvement or a breaking change as done in [1] and [2].

[1] https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-dev-website/blob/6051eea53a87c869fabcfe29f90394a87684cb05/downloads/swan-lake-release-notes/swan-lake-beta6/RELEASE_NOTE.md?plain=1#L91
[2] https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-dev-website/blob/6051eea53a87c869fabcfe29f90394a87684cb05/downloads/swan-lake-release-notes/swan-lake-2201.5.0/RELEASE_NOTE.md?plain=1#L300

Reviewer 3: Shall we have a separate section, as discussed offline?

Author: Updated.

#### `serdes` package

- Deprecated the `serdes` package.

### New features

#### `constraint` package

- Introduced the `@constriant:Date` annotation to validate date record structures.
- Allowed constraint annotations on subtypes.

#### `http` package

- Added constraint validation support for `query`, `path`, and `header` parameters.
- Exposed the `http:Request` object in the response interceptors as a remote method parameter.
- Added finite type support for `query`, `path`, and `header` parameters.

#### `graphql` package

- Added support for GraphQL field interceptors.
- Added support for GraphQL interceptor configurations.
- Added support to access subfields of a GraphQL field from the `graphql:Field` object.

#### `persist` package

- Added support for the `in-memory` data store.
- Added support for the `google-sheets` data store. This is currently an experimental feature and its behavior may be subject to change in future releases.
- Added support for defining enums and adding `enum` fields to the data model.

#### `edi` package

- Introduced the `edi` module to convert EDI to JSON and vice versa based on a given schema.

#### `toml` package

> - Introduced the `toml` module to convert a TOML configuration file to `map<json>` and vice versa.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- Introduced the pre-release version of the `toml` module to convert a TOML configuration file to `map<json>` and vice versa.
```

#### `yaml` package

> - Introduced the `yaml` module to convert a YAML configuration file to JSON and vice 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- Introduced  the pre-release version of the `yaml` module to convert a YAML configuration file to JSON and vice 
```

---
layout: ballerina-left-nav-release-notes
title: 2201.6.0 (Swan Lake) 
permalink: /downloads/swan-lake-release-notes/2201.6.0/
active: 2201.6.0
redirect_from: 
    - /downloads/swan-lake-release-notes/2201.6.0
    - /downloads/swan-lake-release-notes/2201.6.0-swan-lake/
    - /downloads/swan-lake-release-notes/2201.6.0-swan-lake
    - /downloads/swan-lake-release-notes/
    - /downloads/swan-lake-release-notes
---

## Overview of Ballerina Swan Lake 2201.6.0

<em>2201.6.0 (Swan Lake Update 6) is the sixth update release of Ballerina Swan Lake, and it includes a new set of features and significant improvements to the compiler, runtime, standard library, and developer tooling. It is based on the 2022R4 version of the Language Specification.</em> 

## Update Ballerina

> Update your currrent Ballerina installation directly to 2201.6.0 by using the [Ballerina Update Tool](/learn/cli-documentation/update-tool/) as follows.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Update your current Ballerina installation directly to 2201.6.0 by using the [Ballerina Update Tool](/learn/cli-documentation/update-tool/) as follows.
```

1. Run `bal update` to get the latest version of the Update Tool.

> 2. Run `bal dist pull 2201.6.0` to update to this latest distribution.

Reviewer 5: @keizer619 Since we are not changing the sematics of `bal dist update` we should be able to use `bal dist update` here?

Author: Fixed in https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-dev-website/pull/6975#discussion_r1209005775.

> 2. Run `bal dist pull 2201.6.0` to update to this latest distribution.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
2. Run `bal dist update` to update to this latest distribution.
```

- A typedesc value (returned by evaluating the `typeof` expression on a result of the `value:cloneWithType` and `value:fromJsonWithType` functions) is changed to give the correct type-reference type.

    ```ballerina
    import ballerina/io;

    type IntArray int[];

    public function main() returns error? {
        float[] arr = [1.0, 2.0];
        IntArray result = check arr.cloneWithType();
        io:println(typeof result); // Prints 'typedesc IntArray'.
    }
    ```

## Language updates

### Bug fixes

To view other bug fixes, see the [GitHub milestone for Swan Lake 2201.6.0](https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-lang/issues?q=is%3Aissue+label%3ATeam%2FCompilerFE+milestone%3A2201.6.0+is%3Aclosed+label%3AType%2FBug).

## Runtime updates

### New features

#### New Runtime Java APIs

Introduced the `getInitMethod()` API in the `io.ballerina.runtime.api.types.ObjectType` class to get the method type of the initializer method of Ballerina objects.

```java
MethodType getInitMethod();
```

> ### Deprecations

Reviewer 5: Be consistent on the order of the sub titles. Here `Deprecations` comes after `New features` while in standard library `Deprecations` comes first. IMO, `Deprecations` should come first.

Author: Fixed.

> ### Improvements
> 
> #### Improvements in Runtime Java APIs

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
### Deprecations

#### Deprecations in Runtime Java APIs
```

  | `parseExpressionStringValue(String, BLink)`      | `io.ballerina.runtime.api.utils.StringUtils`       |
  | `getValueKind()`                                 | `io.ballerina.runtime.api.values.BDecimal`         |
  | `getStrand()`                                    | `io.ballerina.runtime.api.values.BFuture`          |
  | `call(Strand, String, Object...)`                | `io.ballerina.runtime.api.values.BObject`          |
  | `start(Strand, String, Object...)`               | `io.ballerina.runtime.api.values.BObject`          |
  | `getRegExpDisjunction()`                         | `io.ballerina.runtime.api.values.BRegexpValue`     |
  | `instantiate(Strand)`                            | `io.ballerina.runtime.api.values.BTypedesc`        |
  | `instantiate(Strand, BInitialValueEntry[])`      | `io.ballerina.runtime.api.values.BTypedesc`        |

### Bug fixes

To view bug fixes, see the [GitHub milestone for 2201.6.0 (Swan Lake)](https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-lang/issues?q=is%3Aissue+milestone%3A2201.6.0+label%3ATeam%2FjBallerina+label%3AType%2FBug+is%3Aclosed).

## Standard library updates

### Deprecations

#### `stan` package

> - Deprectaed the `stan` package.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
- Deprecated the `stan` package.
```

    > For NATS-enabled applications requiring persistence, it is recommended to use the `JetStreamClient` provided by the [`ballerinax/nats`](https://github.com/ballerina-platform/module-ballerinax-nats) library. For more information, see the new [NATS JetStream client](https://lib.ballerina.io/ballerinax/nats/latest#JetStreamClient) and the [NATS JetStream listener](https://lib.ballerina.io/ballerinax/nats/latest#JetStreamListener).

#### `serdes` package

> - Deprectaed the `serdes` package.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
- Deprecated the `serdes` package.
```

### New features

#### `constraint` package

- Introduced the `@constriant:Date` annotation to validate date record structures.
- Allowed constraint annotations on subtypes.

#### `http` package

- Added constraint validation support for `query`, `path`, and `header` parameters.
- Exposed the `http:Request` object in the response interceptors as a remote method parameter.
- Added finite type support for `query`, `path`, and `header` parameters.

#### `graphql` package

- Added support for GraphQL field interceptors.
- Added support for GraphQL interceptor configurations.
- Added support to access subfields of a GraphQL field from the `graphql:Field` object.

#### `persist` package

- Added support for the `in-memory` data store.
- Added support for the `google-sheets` data store. This is currently an experimental feature and its behavior may be subject to change in future releases.
- Added support for defining enums and adding `enum` fields to the data model.

#### `edi` package

- Introduced the `edi` module to convert EDI to JSON and vice versa based on a given schema.

> #### `toml` package

Reviewer 5: We better mention toml and yaml are in pre-release versions . @shafreenAnfar / @MadhukaHarith92

Author: Fixed in the below.

- https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-dev-website/pull/6975#discussion_r1209037423
- https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-dev-website/pull/6975#discussion_r1209037684

- Added the `persist migrate` command to generate migration scripts for data model changes in the `mysql` data store. The support for migrations is currently an experimental feature and its behavior may be subject to change in future releases.

#### Language Server

- Added inlay hint support for function call expressions and method call expressions to provide information about parameters.

### Improvements

#### Test Framework

- Added support for excluding source files from code coverage.

#### Persist Tool

- Added support for additional DB configurations in the generated client objects for the `mysql` data store.
- Changed the Ballerina `byte[]` type mapping to `LONGBLOB` in the generated SQL script file.

#### Language Server

- Removed service template initialization from the lightweight mode.
- Improved the completion support and signature help for client resource access actions.
- Improved the main function completion item.
- Improved completions in the named argument context.
- Added support to rename parameter documentation for record fields and required parameters.

> 
> #### Ballerina Update Tool
> 
> - Improved the `bal dist update` command to update the active distribution to the latest patch version (of the active Swan Lake version). 
> - Improved the `bal dist pull latest` command to update the active distribution to the latest Swan Lake version.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
```

- Added support for OpenAPI enums in the client and service generation. 
- Added support for query parameters with referenced schema in the Ballerina service generation. 
- Added support for header parameters with referenced schema in the Ballerina service generation. 
- Added support for `integer`, `float`, `decimal`, and `boolean` header parameter types in the Ballerina service generation.

#### Architecture model generator

To view improvements of the architecture model generator, see the [GitHub milestone for 2201.6.0 (Swan Lake)](https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-dev-tools/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aclosed+label%3AArea%2FArchitectureModelGenerator+label%3AType%2FImprovement+milestone%3A2201.6.0).

#### CLI commands

##### Support for providing paths with `bal new`

Added support to provide a directory path with the `bal new` command to create a package in a specific directory (e.g., `bal new <package-path>`). 

> ##### Deprecation of `bal init`

Reviewer 5: Seems a new L3 sub title `Deprecations` is added under standard library to handle similar info. Why not here?

Author: Fixed in the below.

- https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-dev-website/pull/6975#discussion_r1209037423
- https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-dev-website/pull/6975#discussion_r1209037684

Author: Fixed.

> The `bal init` coomand is deprecated and will be removed in a future version. `bal new .` can be used instead.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
The `bal init` command is deprecated and will be removed in a future version. `bal new .` can be used instead.
```

- Improved the completion support and signature help for client resource access actions.
- Improved the main function completion item.
- Improved completions in the named argument context.
- Added support to rename parameter documentation for record fields and required parameters.

#### OpenAPI Tool

- Added support for regular expression templates (i.e., the `pattern` property) defined on OpenAPI `string` types in the Ballerina client and service generation.
  With this support, the aforementioned Regex templates will be represented as `ballerina/constraint` module annotations in the generated code. This support applies to Regex patterns that satisfy [the Ballerina regular expression grammar](https://ballerina.io/spec/lang/2022R4/#section_10.1).
- Added support for OpenAPI enums in the client and service generation. 
- Added support for query parameters with referenced schema in the Ballerina service generation. 
- Added support for header parameters with referenced schema in the Ballerina service generation. 
- Added support for `integer`, `float`, `decimal`, and `boolean` header parameter types in the Ballerina service generation.

#### Architecture Model Generator

> To view improvements of the architecture model generator, see the [GitHub milestone for 2201.6.0 (Swan Lake)](https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-dev-tools/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aclosed+label%3AArea%2FArchitectureModelGenerator+label%3AType%2FImprovement+milestone%3A2201.6.0).

Author: @NipunaRanasinghe @AzeemMuzammil

> To view improvements of the architecture model generator, see the [GitHub milestone for 2201.6.0 (Swan Lake)](https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-dev-tools/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aclosed+label%3AArea%2FArchitectureModelGenerator+label%3AType%2FImprovement+milestone%3A2201.6.0).

Reviewer: +1 will modify

> To view improvements of the architecture model generator, see the [GitHub milestone for 2201.6.0 (Swan Lake)](https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-dev-tools/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aclosed+label%3AArea%2FArchitectureModelGenerator+label%3AType%2FImprovement+milestone%3A2201.6.0).

Author: Addressed in https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-dev-website/pull/6975#discussion_r1211090220.

- Improved completions in the named argument context.
- Added support to rename parameter documentation for record fields and required parameters.

#### OpenAPI Tool

- Added support for regular expression templates (i.e., the `pattern` property) defined on OpenAPI `string` types in the Ballerina client and service generation.
  With this support, the aforementioned Regex templates will be represented as `ballerina/constraint` module annotations in the generated code. This support applies to Regex patterns that satisfy [the Ballerina regular expression grammar](https://ballerina.io/spec/lang/2022R4/#section_10.1).
- Added support for OpenAPI enums in the client and service generation. 
- Added support for query parameters with referenced schema in the Ballerina service generation. 
- Added support for header parameters with referenced schema in the Ballerina service generation. 
- Added support for `integer`, `float`, `decimal`, and `boolean` header parameter types in the Ballerina service generation.

#### Architecture Model Generator

> To view improvements of the architecture model generator, see the [GitHub milestone for 2201.6.0 (Swan Lake)](https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-dev-tools/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aclosed+label%3AArea%2FArchitectureModelGenerator+label%3AType%2FImprovement+milestone%3A2201.6.0).

Author: Fixed.
